README.md, before:

[![Clojars Project](https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/com.sagevisuals/speculoos.svg)](https://clojars.org/com.sagevisuals/speculoos)

# Speculoos

An experimental Clojure library for data specification.

Find documentation at the [Speculoos project page](https://blosavio.github.io/speculoos/home.html).

## Setup

### Leiningen/Boot

In your `project.clj` file's `:deps` entry:

```clojure
[com.sagevisuals/speculoos "1"]
```

### Clojure CLI/deps.edn

```clojure
com.sagevisuals/speculoos {:mvn/version "1"}
```

Then require it:

```clojure
(require '[speculoos.core :refer [valid-scalars? validate-scalars only-invalid]])
```

## Usage

Validate a sequence:

```clojure
(valid-scalars? [42 :foo 22/7] [int? keyword? ratio?]) ;; => true
```

Validate a map:

```clojure
(valid-scalars? {:x 42 :y 'foo} {:x int? :y symbol?}) ;; true
```

Predicates not satisfied:

```clojure
(only-invalid (validate-scalars [42 :foo 22/7] [string? keyword? int?]))
;; => ({:path [0], :datum 42, :predicate string?, :valid? false}
;;     {:path [2], :datum 22/7, :predicate int?, :valid? false})
```

## License

Copyright © 2024 Bradley Losavio

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/mit).

Commit message:

1. added more project page links to top of README to give people opportunity to understand more than what is in README 2. added SCM section into project.clj to assist cljdocs in finding repos

README.md, after:

[![Clojars Project](https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/com.sagevisuals/speculoos.svg)](https://clojars.org/com.sagevisuals/speculoos)

* [Ideas](https://blosavio.github.io/speculoos/ideas.html) An in-depth discussion of the Speculoos experiment.
* [Documentation](https://blosavio.github.io/speculoos/documentation.html) Discussion of why and how to use Speculoos, including implementation details and a glossary of terms.
* [Recipes](https://blosavio.github.io/speculoos/recipes.html) Quick examples showing how to use various features of the Speculoos library.
* [diff](https://blosavio.github.io/speculoos/diff.html) Side-by-side comparison of spec.alpha and Speculoos.
* [API](https://blosavio.github.io/speculoos/index.html)

# Speculoos

An experimental Clojure library for data specification.

## Setup

### Leiningen/Boot

In your `project.clj` file's `:deps` entry:

```clojure
[com.sagevisuals/speculoos "1"]
```

### Clojure CLI/deps.edn

```clojure
com.sagevisuals/speculoos {:mvn/version "1"}
```

Then require it:

```clojure
(require '[speculoos.core :refer [valid-scalars? validate-scalars only-invalid]])
```

## Brief usage

Validate a sequence of scalars:

```clojure
(valid-scalars? [42 :foo 22/7] [int? keyword? ratio?]) ;; => true
```

Validate a map of scalars:

```clojure
(valid-scalars? {:x 42 :y 'foo} {:x int? :y symbol?}) ;; true
```

Predicates not satisfied:

```clojure
(only-invalid (validate-scalars [42 :foo 22/7] [string? keyword? int?]))
;; => ({:path [0], :datum 42, :predicate string?, :valid? false}
;;     {:path [2], :datum 22/7, :predicate int?, :valid? false})
```

More at the [Speculoos project page](https://blosavio.github.io/speculoos/home.html).

## License

Copyright © 2024 Bradley Losavio

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/mit).
